README.md, before:

## Applications

Open, downloadable, editable documentation (via git).

**Home Energy Monitor**

* [Home Energy Monitor (posting to emoncms.org)](Applications/HomeEnergyMonitor/HomeEnergyMonitor.md)

**Heatpump Monitor** 

These examples need updating to use latest emonhub + emoncms setup:

* [Heatpump Monitor (with emoncms running locally on a harddrive)](Applications/HeatpumpMonitorHDD/HeatpumpMonitorHDD.md)
* [Heatpump Monitor (direct serial emontx -> RPi + GSM](Applications/HeatpumpMonitorSerialGSM/HeatpumpMonitorSerialGSM.md)

## Modules

### RaspberryPI

See: [https://github.com/emoncms/emoncms/tree/bufferedwrite](https://github.com/emoncms/emoncms/tree/bufferedwrite)

## Building Blocks

### Android App development

* [How to build an Energy Monitoring Android App P1 - Retrieving data from a remote server such as emoncms.org](BuildingBlocks/AndroidApp/AndroidAppPart1.md)
* [How to build an Energy Monitoring Android App P2 - Drawing an Energy Monitoring display with java 2d canvas](BuildingBlocks/AndroidApp/AndroidAppPart2.md)
* [Drawing a myelectric style bar chart](BuildingBlocks/DrawingABarChart/DrawingABarChart.md)

### Time Series Database design

- [Emoncms time series database development history](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/history.md)
- [Variable interval time series](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/variableinterval.md)
- [Fixed interval time series](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/fixedinterval.md)
- [Fixed interval with averaging time series](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/fixedintervalaveraging.md)
- [Test results: Improving write performance with buffering](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/writeloadinvestigation.md)

### Archive

Depreciated archieved documentation:

* [Gateway](Archive/RaspberryPI/Gateway/gateway.md)
* [Full Stack HDD](Archive/RaspberryPI/FullStackHDD/FullStackHDD.md)
* [Full Stack HDD + scheduler](Archive/RaspberryPI/FullStackHDDScheduler/FullStackHDDScheduler.md)
* [Home Energy Monitor (with emoncms running locally on a harddrive)](Archive/Applications/HomeEnergyMonitorHDD/HomeEnergyMonitorHDD.md)

Commit message:

add note to say work in progress

README.md, after:

## Applications

Open, downloadable, editable documentation (via git).

Work in progress, See [OpenEnergyMonitor.org building blocks section](openenergymonitor.org/emon/buildingblocks) for most of our other documentation

**Home Energy Monitor**

* [Home Energy Monitor (posting to emoncms.org)](Applications/HomeEnergyMonitor/HomeEnergyMonitor.md)

**Heatpump Monitor** 

These examples need updating to use latest emonhub + emoncms setup:

* [Heatpump Monitor (with emoncms running locally on a harddrive)](Applications/HeatpumpMonitorHDD/HeatpumpMonitorHDD.md)
* [Heatpump Monitor (direct serial emontx -> RPi + GSM](Applications/HeatpumpMonitorSerialGSM/HeatpumpMonitorSerialGSM.md)

## Modules

### RaspberryPI

See: [https://github.com/emoncms/emoncms/tree/bufferedwrite](https://github.com/emoncms/emoncms/tree/bufferedwrite)

## Building Blocks

### Android App development

* [How to build an Energy Monitoring Android App P1 - Retrieving data from a remote server such as emoncms.org](BuildingBlocks/AndroidApp/AndroidAppPart1.md)
* [How to build an Energy Monitoring Android App P2 - Drawing an Energy Monitoring display with java 2d canvas](BuildingBlocks/AndroidApp/AndroidAppPart2.md)
* [Drawing a myelectric style bar chart](BuildingBlocks/DrawingABarChart/DrawingABarChart.md)

### Time Series Database design

- [Emoncms time series database development history](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/history.md)
- [Variable interval time series](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/variableinterval.md)
- [Fixed interval time series](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/fixedinterval.md)
- [Fixed interval with averaging time series](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/fixedintervalaveraging.md)
- [Test results: Improving write performance with buffering](BuildingBlocks/TimeSeries/writeloadinvestigation.md)

### Archive

Depreciated archieved documentation:

* [Gateway](Archive/RaspberryPI/Gateway/gateway.md)
* [Full Stack HDD](Archive/RaspberryPI/FullStackHDD/FullStackHDD.md)
* [Full Stack HDD + scheduler](Archive/RaspberryPI/FullStackHDDScheduler/FullStackHDDScheduler.md)
* [Home Energy Monitor (with emoncms running locally on a harddrive)](Archive/Applications/HomeEnergyMonitorHDD/HomeEnergyMonitorHDD.md)
