BuildingBlocks/emoncms/Global variables in EmonCMS.md, before:

#Global variables in EmonCMS
Global variables can be declared in new modules, for example:
```global $mysqli, $session;```
There are many globals available, here we describe the more relevant ones.
##$mysqli
Object that connects to EmonCMS database. It is an instance of the php class mysqli. You can see how to use it the php documentation: [http://php.net/manual/en/class.mysqli.php](http://php.net/manual/en/class.mysqli.php)
##$redis
Redis is an in-memory database (MySQL is in-disk). `$redis` is used to reduce the write load to the database. 
__Anybody how can do this section??__
##$route
Object that is an instance of the class Route. This class is defined in `route.php`
Once the URL is decoded in *index.php* the *$route* object properties are set. For the following URL:
```
http://server/controller/action.subaction.format?attribute=blabla
```
The *$route* properties are:
```
$route->controller = controller
$route->action = action 
$route-> subaction = subaction
$route-> format = format
```
##$session
Associative array that stores info about permissions after a user or a node has authenticated.
$session['userid']: the session has been started by this user or a node that belongs to him/her
- **$session['read']** session with read privileges (1 for true, 0 for false)
- **$session['write']**: session with write privileges (1 for true, 0 for false)
- **$session['admin']**: session with admin privileges (1 for true, 0 for false)
- **$session['editmode']**: I don't know what it is for and i haven't been able to find any usage
- **$session['lang']**: language to be used, useful for the html output;

##$user
Object that is an instance of the class User. This class is defined in `Modules/user/user_model.php` 
This global variable is useful if you need to deal with: user login, user authentication, set/get user info like username, id, apikeys, email, language or timezone.

To know everything you can do using its methods, have look at the model.

Commit message:

Update Global variables in EmonCMS.md
Added EmonCMS version when this documentation was written

BuildingBlocks/emoncms/Global variables in EmonCMS.md, after:

#Global variables in EmonCMS
Global variables can be declared in new modules, for example:
```
global $mysqli, $session;
```
There are many globals available, here we describe the more relevant ones.

This documentation has been written for EmonCMS v8.4.0, for future versions what is said here may be wrong or incomplete
##$mysqli
Object that connects to EmonCMS database. It is an instance of the php class mysqli. You can see how to use it the php documentation: [http://php.net/manual/en/class.mysqli.php](http://php.net/manual/en/class.mysqli.php)
##$redis
Redis is an in-memory database (MySQL is in-disk). `$redis` is used to reduce the write load to the database. 
__Anybody how can do this section??__
##$route
Object that is an instance of the class Route. This class is defined in `route.php`
Once the URL is decoded in *index.php* the *$route* object properties are set. For the following URL:
```
http://server/controller/action.subaction.format?attribute=blabla
```
The *$route* properties are:
```
$route->controller = controller
$route->action = action 
$route-> subaction = subaction
$route-> format = format
```
##$session
Associative array that stores info about permissions after a user or a node has authenticated.
$session['userid']: the session has been started by this user or a node that belongs to him/her
- **$session['read']** session with read privileges (1 for true, 0 for false)
- **$session['write']**: session with write privileges (1 for true, 0 for false)
- **$session['admin']**: session with admin privileges (1 for true, 0 for false)
- **$session['editmode']**: I don't know what it is for and i haven't been able to find any usage
- **$session['lang']**: language to be used, useful for the html output;

##$user
Object that is an instance of the class User. This class is defined in `Modules/user/user_model.php` 
This global variable is useful if you need to deal with: user login, user authentication, set/get user info like username, id, apikeys, email, language or timezone.

To know everything you can do using its methods, have look at the model.
